So, mobile pay became an idea in 2012. There was a lot of movements in the banking sector and the payment sector to launch mobile payment solutions and especially in Denmark there's been a long tradition for banks working together on various digital infrastructure, payment infrastructure, the Dancard, our direct debit solution, Betaling Service and other solutions, NEMID. But Danske Bank, based on experiences with mobile banking, decided to go its own way. So there was basically a race to get first into the market, Danske Bank against all the other banks and Danske Bank launched five weeks before the other banks. And why was there this interest in this race? There was a big interest from the executive management in Danske Bank to launch new innovative digital solutions that could also scale across the Nordic countries where Danske Bank is present. So it was an opportunity that was seen in the market and a competitive dynamic between Danske Bank and the other banks that made this come about. So we started to focus on where can we solve that pain point of not having cash anymore and therefore we decided to launch with the person-to-person or P2P transfer as the first solution, build a user base from that and from then on expand with other solutions. We focused an extreme amount of time and energy on simplicity because we realised that to win in this market you need to have the most simple solution. So we looked into how can we cut away all the unnecessary steps in the process of a mobile payment, for instance when I transfer money to somebody, and cut it down to five simple steps. It takes seven seconds from you open your app to you're done and out again. So we won by making it extremely simple, by being first, but also by making it extremely simple to sign up. If you compare MobilePay to the competing solutions, the competing solutions took forever to sign up. You needed to go to your computer and enter codes and so on. With MobilePay you could just enter your information directly in the app and start to use the app in a few minutes. And then lastly we also, a bit by chance, but by focusing on this person-to-person transfer, we created a viral element, you could say, around the solution. Because if I send money to somebody who's not yet a MobilePay user, they got a text message saying there's some money waiting for you, download the app to get your money. And of course that created an incentive for other people to start using the app, so it spread extremely quickly and was an instant success. 100,000 users the first month, another 100,000 the next month, and so forth. And in a country the size of Denmark, that made us quite quickly the most used solution. In Danske Bank the mantra was it's better to disrupt ourselves than to leave it to somebody else to disrupt us. So there was really a clear strategy from the executive management in Danske Bank to do something that the bank couldn't do itself, and do it sort of on the side of the bank, and also take risks, if you like, take chances, bet on solutions that you couldn't do as a normal traditional bank. It's fair to say that when we started out, we had never ever imagined a growth like the one we then ended up seeing. So both from sort of a risk perspective and a cost perspective, that hadn't really been factored in in light of the size we now have. But we then also did things to contain the risk. So mobile pay is to a very large extent a closed ecosystem. We know who the users are that send money to each other. You cannot send money to somebody outside Denmark or outside Finland. All the merchants you can, all the shops where you can pay with mobile pay are also customers of mobile pay. We know who they are. And luckily in the countries like Denmark and the rest of the Nordic countries, we have fairly good public registries of businesses, for instance. We have strong IDs and digital IDs for consumers. So by doing that, so a combination of strong identities and a closed ecosystem makes it fairly easy for us to lower the risk. And we have an extreme low risk, for instance, compared to, and fraud levels, low fraud levels compared to card payments, for instance. So it's due to the infrastructure, the setup, and that we didn't, you know, overnight open up for the whole world. But we sort of limited it to Danes living in Denmark, having a Danish account number, having a Danish phone number and a Danish social security number and so on. So on the technical side, we did a number of things. But I would say the majority of the activities behind mobile pay were based on very keen focus on the user experience and not so much on the technology. But how can we design the user experience to be as simple as possible? And in order to do that, to have the very simple solution you have in mobile pay today, where at least as a user, you only see very simple screens, but behind the scenes, there's a lot of stuff going on. So we had then, in order to make that happen and make it so simple, we had to work a lot on the user experience, the user journey, on the legal aspects of being a user. What can we do and not do with the information we have? How can we navigate in being a regulated company with a license from the Danish financial authorities? How can we manage their requirements? And on the technical side, it was not because of the technology itself, maybe the governance around the technology. If mobile pay had been a traditional project within a bank like Danske Bank, managed with all the governance and the traditional success criteria and approvals and so on, we would have launched 12 months later. So the biggest challenge on the technology side was actually to, on the one hand, work within the setup of Danske Bank, and on the other hand, do everything differently. So work much faster, more agile, get approvals much faster than you otherwise would. It was not the coding in itself, it was managing the structural complexity of a project like this. And there, of course, we were helped a lot by the wish from the management in Danske Bank to set us free and let us do things differently. Mobile pay was also, to a certain extent, a response from Danske Bank to the potential threat competition from the big techs, the large Chinese and American companies and other fintechs that are starting up. So in that sense, having a Nordic scale, having a strong Nordic presence was key. It's also, to a certain extent, a market where the winner takes it all, especially on the person-to-person transfers. Nobody wants to have five or ten different apps on their phone. So when I need to transfer money to one person who is the customer of one bank, then I need to use this app and another app and so on, which is the situation we have in many other countries. There you have separate apps per bank. We wanted to be this Swiss army knife, you could say, the one that could solve these needs across all banks. And that required scale, and to scale fast to get there first, to be the preferred app. So has everything then been a smooth ride? No, it hasn't. In the early days, we had this principle of simplicity. That is still core of our values, what we want to do. We say we simplify life. That is our mission in the world, to simplify the life of both consumers and users and the merchants that use our solutions. Over the years, as we've added more and more products, more and more features to our app, we of course sometimes have had to compromise, you could say, on the simplicity, because it's fairly easy to make a person-to-person transfer. It's much more complex to build a solution for online commerce, in-store payments, paying your bills and so on. So when we have failed, it has almost all the time been when we have not remembered our roots about simplicity. So in order to get something out there in the market fast enough, we have made something that wasn't simple enough to use, where we haven't focused enough on what is actually the pain point that we're going to solve here. A pain point for you as a user, or a pain point for a merchant that has to accept payments, whether as a bill or in the store or online. Today, we are 380 people in MobilePay. After the merger now with Vips, we will be 700 people. It's still a mix of people who have, you could say, traditional banking and payments skills, but also people who consider themselves to work in a fintech environment, and creative people, but also legal people. We have, you could say, all kinds of compliance, risk, customer support and so on.
