Hi, and welcome to this segment on scalability and virtual resources. Our world is becoming increasingly digital, physical objects become virtual, they become software or data sitting somewhere in the cloud. And a key differentiator of businesses is the ability of a company to handle virtual resources and scale them based on demand from users. In this context, engineers like yourself need to understand the difference between virtual and physical resources, how to achieve scalability and manage these virtual resources, understand how to handle some of the disadvantages that come with solutions like cloud computing, and how things like networking effects create value through adding more users. Software is eating the world. Objects become data and software sitting somewhere in the cloud, music that we used to listen on a Walkman or a compact disc is Spotify, movies are Netflix, everything is becoming virtualized, it's data and software. Even in a factory, things like programmable logic controllers that control robots and gateways that provide communication are virtualized, they become software sitting in a data center and then you control the robots from the data center. This is happening because it has many advantages, scalability, cost savings, flexibility, it could even help sustainability. This is a car, it's a physical object, right? And you know what they say about cars, a car loses half of its value when you go out of the dealership. And that's true, it has maximum value when you buy it and then as you use it, it depreciates, it wears out, it has rust, it becomes less valuable. Now contrast that with a social media platform like Instagram, where when it has been released it didn't have that much value, but as more users are using it and upload content and create connections, it becomes more valuable, value increases when more users are using it. Unlike the car, Instagram becomes more valuable with use. These are called network effects and the value of a product or service increases with use and network effects are important when you design digital products and allows you to scale rapidly and enter markets quickly. This is not a car, it's a mobility service. Instead of selling cars that depreciate in value, they provide access to vehicles via an app, the green mobility app. We noticed with digital innovation this shift from product-based services to a service-based model, from products to services, and this is a fundamental component of digital innovation. This also allows you to have additional revenue streams, green mobility has probably a lot of data about how their cars are used, about how users, drivers are using their cars. They could for example sell data about battery management to companies that optimize that and this shift is enabling a lot of innovation. Behind me there is a data center at DTU that helps scientists to run more experiments by scaling resources available. Scalability is the capacity of a system to handle increased workload by proportionally increasing systems resources. A classic example is the Amazon website Black Friday before Christmas where you have to handle a lot of e-commerce. As a business, if you are worried about handling a peak workload, you have to buy more servers. With cloud computing and a data center like the one behind me, you can temporarily increase resources to meet demand. This is possible because of virtualization. I can scale because software and data are immaterial, it doesn't cost me anything to make a copy of data or start software or a new machine. There are many advantages with cloud computing. We talked about scalability, this is also called elasticity, to quickly match resource capacity to demand, to make it elastic, increasing resources during peak times, reducing during off-peak times. A big advantage is cost. A startup or a business can access a lot of virtual resources without investing in expensive infrastructure. You pay as you go, you pay per usage. One challenge of cloud is that it uses different programming models. You have to use maybe a microservices architecture, a collection of loosely coupled services allowing efficient scaling and isolation of failure. You have to use containers, you have to use orchestration of containers. Containers encapsulate the software in a complete file system that contains everything needed to run on a new virtual machine. And orchestration helps you to manage and scale these virtual machines and containers. But with the cloud you also have disadvantages. Sometimes the performance can be a problem. Virtual machines all share the same physical hosts and maybe that's oversubscribed. You may have a problem with network latency. Some users may be far from the data center and it takes a lot of time for data to travel long distances on the internet. It could be a problem for high-performance real-time applications like, for example, some video transmission of a live event. Here you can use models such as queuing theory to evaluate the delays in your network. You can use load balancing to evenly distribute the workload. You can use orchestration to improve responsiveness of your applications. I mentioned the cost as an advantage, but cost can also be a disadvantage. Costs can escalate quickly if you are not careful to monitor and manage the virtual resources that you use. You have to optimize cost. You have to make sure that you only use what's needed in the cloud, shutting down unused parts, for example. Cloud also has disadvantages of security and privacy because you have multiple tenants, multiple companies using the same physical architecture. Although cloud computing companies make a lot of effort to separate these things, sometimes there can be data breaches. Another disadvantage is resilience. What if something fails in the data center? You can address that by, for example, building redundancy into your service by using multiple data centers in multiple geographic areas. This can improve fault tolerance and it can reduce downtime, increasing availability of your solutions. Computing can help with sustainability. We don't have to kill a tree to read a book. I can read it on a screen. But data centers and digital devices also consume a lot of energy. Around 2.5% of global emissions are coming from data centers and digital systems. This is actually similar to air travel, and we're all worried about air travel. What we need is green computing. We need to reduce the energy consumption of data centers, of digital devices. We should use renewable energy sources like wind or solar to power our data centers. And some ideas are, for example, to reuse the heat generated by data centers to heat homes during winter. We covered several topics, from scalability to virtual resources, how to use cloud computing in the right way, how to create value through users, and so on. I hope I convinced you that scalability and virtual resources are an important topic. It's essential for you as future engineers to use it and apply it in a way to drive a successful digital innovation.
