The idea behind Cordia was that we founded the company from the vision that we needed to do something with healthcare. We believe that we solve big problems in the current way that healthcare is working. We saw that in a country like Denmark, we saw it in the rest of the Scandinavian countries. And when we looked over the ocean all the way to the U.S., we saw even bigger problems. We believe that if we could build a technology that could help optimize the quality towards the patient in healthcare and also alleviate some of the biggest stress points that they're working with right now, then we would have a good and well-functioning company. The big problem that we set out to solve in healthcare was in the patient interaction. So there are a plethora of different patient interactions in healthcare where patients are calling into, for instance, the 112 line or calling into the hospital, calling their general practitioner, having a video consultation and so on, where either these interactions are not sufficient, so the information that is disseminated in these interactions is not enough to make a good healthcare decision for the patient, or they're simply too time-consuming. So the first problem that we had our stellar focus on was the 112 conversation. So when someone is calling into a 112 line in Scandinavia or a 911 line in the U.S., they're in dire need of help. And most people that are calling that number is in dire need of immediate help and critical, acute help. And they're expecting an ambulance. But for someone to send an ambulance, they need to understand what is wrong and why they should send that ambulance. And that conversation itself is really difficult to understand for the healthcare professional. And we believe that if we could build a technology that could help out with that conversation, make a better decision based on what is being said, then we would have a good solution to some of the problems that healthcare is having. The problems that we wanted to solve in healthcare is a very broad problem. And it's difficult to make tangible. I come from machine learning and artificial intelligence as background within that. And we believe that if we could build AI that could understand the dialogue between the patient and the healthcare professional in order to structure the information given in that conversation, then we had a good technology that could help make better decisions. So what we set out was basically build an AI system that could understand the dialogue similar to the dialogue that the two of us are having right now, and take all of that information in that dialogue and take out the salient part, so the most important part of that information, structure that information, and show it to the healthcare professional for better decision making. So that ended up being a software interface for the healthcare professional. While they had the dialogue with the patient, they were looking at our software interface. And when the AI was prompting something, for instance, did you ask about breathing patterns, did you ask about whether the patient is conscious, etc., then the healthcare professional would get those cues, and they could start asking those questions to get that information out of the one that called. First of all, we looked into the technology that we would need to build. At that point in time, the technology within machine learning and so forth was in its early days in terms of building good technology that could understand what is being said inside audio, and do it live, and to a good enough accuracy to actually be meaningful. So we did analysis on the research field in terms of all of the publications out there and so forth, and we found that we believed to have a good methodology that we could follow, first of all. Then next, we needed a data set, we needed to be able to prove it on a data set somewhere that this methodology would work. So we started looking into the space of these critical conversations that we were onboarding first, and we did analysis on all of the clinical research within that field, found out who did the best clinical research, and then we started hammering on the phone here, starting to call and ask them whether we could try a new methodology on their data. And fortunately, the first call that we made, they were actually welcoming an innovative technology. So we asked for some data for us to prove our technology, they gave us the data, and then we proved that our technology could actually be capable, even in its infant form, to make a change inside these dialogues. Our go-to-market strategy, first of all, was that we need to prove our capabilities on a data source that was amongst the best in the world, and we quantified the best-in-the-world part from the clinical research. So we said, if our customers did a lot of clinical research within the field and got a lot of citations, etc., then we believe that a healthcare provider should be one of the best in the world. Our go-to-market strategy from that point was basically to go to all of the other best-in-the-world healthcare providers within that field to actually gather data. Because gathering that data from the best-in-the-world, we could make our AI learn from that data, and thereby make a really vital technology for the ones that are not doing as well. So from that perspective, we started aggregating all of the data from the best-in-the-world, learning the models, the machine learning models, to become better, and so on. And then after that, we went to market towards the second-in-class, third-in-class, and so forth, and started aggregating and harvesting their data, showing our capabilities on that data, training, learning from some of it for our machine learning models, and so on. So we started out in Denmark because of the Scandinavian healthcare system, first and foremost. And the language barrier was definitely a problem, because only 5.8 million people are speaking Danish, right? So building a technology that is definitely language-dependent is not always the best outset to build that for a population of 5.8 million people. However, the advantage of building it in some of the best healthcare systems was superior to that. So what we did is that we onboarded our first customer in the region of Copenhagen, and then we took the plane all the way to the West Coast in the U.S. and onboarded our second customer, and that was a U.S. customer, to make sure that we could actually tackle the problem of starting a product from a language minority. In order for a business like ours to scale properly, we need to build as generically a product as possible. And from the outset, we built our product to fit into the workflow of the general healthcare institution. And that means that we are actually live with the product, spanning from Sweden to Denmark, all the way to the U.S., having a lot of U.S. customers, that's our biggest market, with the same solution across all of these countries. We are covering approximately 50 million patient interactions a year right now, and we will be at approximately 100 million by the end of this year. We started out in the very critical conversations, and what we have proven in the last year is that our solution can be used across all of the different conversations in healthcare. So right now, our solution is spanning across the very critical 9-1-1 encounter, to the health plan provider, so that's when you call your health insurance provider, and to the nurse lines, that's similar in the region of Copenhagen, it's called 1813, but there are nurse lines scattered all the way across the U.S., to the hospital, communication centers, all the way to the physical dialogue, like the one that we're having right now. So our product, what we've proven in the last year, is that our product is actually applicable throughout all of those different workflows, with the similar product across the workflows. One of my biggest learnings in this journey of ours, until now, is that being true to the fact that I'm personally from DTU, and being true to the fact that I'm really good at understanding subject matter, and I'm really good at analyzing. My PhD has really worked in my favor, in terms of actually being quick at scanning our information, and being good enough at questioning what I learn, and questioning to the right people whether I understand it correctly. When you know more, then you feel you know less, right?
