When you hear the words digital and innovation, you probably have a good idea of what we
are talking about.
And maybe you also have a specific product in mind, maybe iPhone, maybe Tesla, or maybe
you think of something intangible like a service, a digital platform, or something more abstract
like AI.
But as an engineer, it is important to understand not only the manifestations of digital innovation,
but also its attributes.
What is special about digital innovation from an engineering point of view?
And which opportunities does the field of digital offer those aiming to create the new or
develop the existing?
By a very classical definition, innovation is a new combination of either new or existing
equipment, knowledge, ideas, resources, or other factors.
But does new always equal innovation, not from an engineering point of view?
We should at least demand the introduction of significantly improved products, services
or processes before any digital novelty deserves to be associated with the term innovation.
And since this is about the marriage of innovation and digitalisation, we also need to address
digital.
What parts of digital do we as engineers need to pay attention to?
When you talk about digital, there are some special attributes to be aware of.
Digital products are often easy to distribute, and they are also often easy to replicate
or make exact copies of.
Digital evolution by a basic definition is based on digital signals and the engineering of
devices to use or produce them.
However, any new product or service that harvests this technology is not digital innovation,
even though it seems to be a common misunderstanding.
On the other hand, not all digital development needs to be innovation.
An important part of digital development can be described as transformation, though it
seems to be less famed, it's perhaps the most important part of digital engineering.
Often you are not even developing a product, you are building digital solutions into existing
products, transforming products into services, or supplying a platform for others to build
their products onto.
Sometimes you can take an existing product and transform that into a digital product.
You might take a watch and think about a digital watch as a replacement of that.
And this is more important than you would think.
In fact, great value is often generated by engineers, not by invention or innovation,
but by transforming existing products or services with state-of-the-art digital tools.
Think about transforming the process, doing things in a different way.
Instead of shipping a DVD, you might instead stream a video that you can watch and consume
at home.
So it is important to understand when a certain problem or opportunity calls for a radical
innovation and when it calls for enhancing or further developing something that already
exists.
Often you need to develop existing products not only because it is the best solution,
but also because it is what the users and thus the market wants.
And being able to profit on innovation or transformation is key to your future existence
as a company, a developer or an R&D division.
So what you need to ask yourself is what do the users want, your career or company just
might depend upon it?
As engineers, we are often driving technology innovations and we are usually really good
at it.
But technology innovation is often what paves the way for new innovations or transformations.
And in order to create value, we need to ask ourselves how does our technology provide
value to the users?
And for that reason, we need to involve users.
We need to center our development and our ideas on users' actual needs and bring them into
the process of innovation and transformation.
User needs are all about creating value for users, but what is value actually?
And how do we go about building it into new solutions?
We cannot talk about innovation without addressing value.
The two things are firmly linked, in engineering so firmly that it is hard to even call new ideas
and products innovation, or for that matter, transformation if they do not deliver value.
But what is value in innovation from an engineering point of view?
A simple equation could be that value is quality divided by the resources that users have
to put in.
And resources can be money, time, and effort, but there is also a societal dimension to value.
Classically, we talk about creating value by innovation and value often has meant creating
an economical value.
In today's society and what we work with, we have to extend that.
So value might also come with social aspects or global sustainability aspects so it does
not necessarily have to be an economical value we create, but it has to be something
that we as a human value and may actually buy into.
Value and value creation, however, is very much a matter of mindset.
What are the mindsets of the users and what are the mindsets of the developers?
Understanding your own mindset and understanding the mindsets of the users is key to developing
products or services that are not only viable but successful and valuable to different kinds
of users.
Basically, any human mind works in two dimensions when it comes to digital development and these
can be defined in the form of questions.
Will I be able to change and adapt to the digital development?
Will the digital development adapt to me?
Will I be able to affect the digital development in a way so that it suits me?
Depending on how you view these questions, you have a different approach to digital innovation
and transformation.
Based on the two dimensions, we can derive four archetypes of users and developers.
And as an engineer, you need to consider how will my new product or service be received
by the stereotypes?
What that also means is that we have to consider our mindsets.
Where do we start from?
How do we approach problems?
And how do we think about changing ourselves in the process?
So we want to be able to have an interesting and fun life as engineers, also 40 years
from now.
