At Veo we make an amateur sports camera, mainly for football, and the product is a camera you mount it next to a football field, then you take your phone, open the app, press record, then it records the whole match, and it makes analysis of what's happening, it detects the goals, it makes a follow cam following the game, and makes a lot of analytics that the coach can use afterwards. The Veo camera can also live stream the football matches, so people can, family and friends can sit at home and watch the players play the game live while it's happening. This idea of filming every football game, we tried with GoPro cameras and all sorts of telephones and all that, but it didn't work out the way it should, so we had to make our own physical camera, and it just took off that way. We made a camera that could see the whole view of the football field, and from that on we made a follow cam that could follow the game where the people and the ball is, and now we have our own internal AI that works on being able to follow each player and give value that way around. So our product is heavily based on a lot of engineering, so there are a lot of engineering hours going into the product, which means that we also need to have a lot of customers before it becomes a good business. I think from the beginning it has been, it's a long term, there's a long term plan to get a lot of customers before it becomes a viable business. Our users are actually our customers, they are the ones who pay us, so our business model is different from, for example, Google, where the users are the product, and of course the more customers we get, the more valuable the product will be, because the customers can help each other and can share content and can share ideas for how to use the product, so there are online communities where people talk about the product and help each other to use it the best way. Our main source of income at Veo is subscription. People pay every month for using our product, and that's mainly because we have a lot of software and a lot of processing going on, the video storage and processing costs money in the cloud, so that's what the customers pay for. Regarding security and keeping our business secrets secret, we have had the strategy, generally, not to try to hide things too much. Our strategy has more been to develop fast, so we'll be ahead, because even if people steal our ideas, they'll probably be half a year behind us anyway, so we will still be ahead. That's been our main strategy. But when we launched our VeoCam 2, so the VeoCam 1 could do the recording and the processing in the cloud, the next camera, VeoCam 2, could do the live streaming. One of the reasons we can develop fast and make new products is that, contrary to the medical industry, for example, our models don't have to be 100% precise. If we make a wrong processing of a video, it will not be a disaster. It's okay. It's most important that if the majority of the videos get improved, it's okay that a small percentage are bad, and this means that there is a lot of room for our AI group to develop new and creative models very fast, so it's a very interesting field to be an AI developer in. So our processing of the videos happens both in the cloud and on the camera. So our processing of the videos happens both in the cloud and on the camera. There are pros and cons for doing things on the camera and in the cloud. If we do it on the camera, then we can do the processing right away while recording, so customers will get the result faster. But that also means that we need to put more advanced hardware in the camera, so the camera will be more expensive. Scaling up means that we had to change the way we do our software development a little bit, because when it was very small, we could do rapid development and push things out, and if something was a little bit off, we could tweak it and fix it. But as the company grew and we got more customers and more edge cases for our software, we would spend more and more time on fixing the edge cases. So this means that we had to, while as we grew, we had to slow down a little bit how fast we developed, because if we continued to develop at a very high pace, we would get so many edge cases that our development would actually stop, because we would have to fix edge cases all the time. So our cloud engineering team has worked a lot on automating everything, so we got rid of all these manual edge cases, and that has been a necessary process for doing the scale-up. So our product is both software and hardware, and having this physical product means that some of our development takes quite some time. When we start developing a new camera, it takes typically two years before it's launched on the market. Yeah, it's a challenge with the hardware, that we have so many good ideas that we want to sort of publish right away, but it just takes more time to develop the hardware. VU Headquarters is comprised of both production on the ground floor. We also have camera development on the first floor, and on the second floor we have a sort of back office. So we have all people, all kinds of different people working here at VU. It makes a good environment that everyone is involved in more or less everything. We try to make sure that everyone is involved in everything that we do. It makes a good environment that everyone is involved in more or less everything. We try to not work in silos, but work very cross-functional. There's a lot of communication between production and development, and whenever there are issues with the production, they come up to the development department, and things are fixed very rapidly. We had, for example, an issue last year where the button on the VU Cam started breaking off, and they noticed that, got that information from customer support. Production found out why it happened, and then came to development and asked, what can we do about this? And from the issue was detected till the mechanical engineers had a 3D-printed solution that was in mass production, it was less than 24 hours. And that would not have been possible if we had our production in China or Vietnam or Mexico. VU is focusing quite a lot on our culture here. We call it culture first. That means that the whole building here is quite unique. We have a sort of a start-up feel. The community here is quite good. This is definitely a good place to work. We have so much fun, and having fun is a big part of working at VU. We are still quite busy, but we do try to have fun every day.
