So welcome to this podcast on the landscape of innovation. My name is Per Bekgaard. I'm from DTU Compute and I teach user experience and also work a lot with innovation. And I have an industrial background and have been living through the Nokia ups and downs. I have also my colleague Andreas Bjergsen here. Andreas is also from DTU Compute and is responsible for teaching also computer graphics. And I would also like to welcome Tim McAloon. You are a professor at DTU Construct, but you have been working also a lot with innovation and sustainability in what we are doing. And you have been part of forming our design and innovation education. So the purpose of the podcast today is to unfold a bit of perspective on the landscape of innovation. We may have touched on elements like value creation or the cultures and so on. But Tim, you've been working with building students also that are part of forming the landscape of innovation. So what do you think would be some of the most valuable assets that the students can take with them from our education? Yeah, so our biggest job at DTU is to educate the engineers and the professionals of the future. And for us, the term value is really important for any engineer or any student who is learning how to create products or other solutions that are going to come out onto the market to be received by a customer, a user, whatever type that may be. Value is a very important concept to have the students understand from the very start because value is something which, at the end of the day, is subjective. It's something that you and I may have a different value perception. But what we generally try to say to the students at the start of their education, at least, is that value is something, if you were to make an equation out of it, now we are at DTU of course, a simple equation could be if we think something has high value, it's the amount of quality we get out over the amount of investment we should put in. And that investment, that could be money, but it could also be time and effort. So from the very first day of their studies, the students that we come into contact with are basically given, you could say, the ammunition to be able to not just judge whether something has a high value, but actually to build in, to design value in, high value into a product or a solution. And let me give a couple of examples of that. One could be that if it's a whole product and it has a competing product or competing products on the market, what is the difference in the value? Why should I buy this product? It should maybe have more features, more functionality for the same price, or maybe the price could be higher, but if the functionality is so much bigger, I'd be willing to pay for that. It could also be down to the very minute feature level of a product, meaning that I could introduce as a designer a feature which is easier to use for the user than the predecessor feature or than a competing product's particular feature has. And that means that the effort that I have to put in as a user is less, which means that my investment is less, therefore I would evaluate something as greater. So although value is, you could say, a subjective term, we try and equip the students to think of how do we not just examine or analyze whether value is there, but actually to design it in. And there's actually a number of design tools and methods you can use to make sure that you're designing high value solutions. Three things you need to think about before developing any tech product or service. So which methods or tools do you think that it's important that the students sort of take with them from their education here? Yeah, well, one for example is to know the field. What is it we're actually developing of a product or a solution? We need to know what the competing solutions are, first of all, and you can do that by doing a teardown or any form of a benchmarking analysis, of course. That's looking at what's the foundation we're standing upon. The second is to understand if I have a great idea, how do I actually crystallize that idea into a solution? And is that solution actually going to be better than the platform or the baseline I've just created by doing the benchmark or the teardown or whatever it could be? To see what better we're going to do based upon what's currently available. The third area is to actually look not just at the technology, but actually at the user. So does the user actually want to use the solution and what is the value add that we're creating here? Because if we end up giving a new solution or a new functionality which is not really designed, and there's many examples of those out in the technological world, which I think UPL would probably be better at giving a long list of than I am, but it's about making sure that we set some goals and some guidelines there. So you could say, to answer the question whether is there a mindset that we can give the students or give young professionals to work with the value term, there are certain ways to go from a technology-led value creation and also a user-driven value creation, which is understanding user needs, understanding the technology availability, understanding the amounts of the limits, the upper limits to where we should push the envelope of possibility depending on the novelty of the product or the solution and so forth. So there are frameworks and ways and processes that we try and convey to the students in a systematic way to think about the value in their product development. So in my view, I probably more come across sort of technology-driven development rather than sort of user-centered or user-focused development. And I don't know if you agree with me, but I think that as engineers, our biggest risk is being very technology-focused and forgetting a little bit about the users. Is that also how you see it, or do you think that we have kind of moved the mindset during the last couple of years also to focus more on the users? I think both. So way back when we started the Design and Innovation Education Program, which is exactly 20 years ago this year, actually, one of the reasons for doing this was to exactly introduce what we call a socio-technical competency to engineering and to engineering studies because we can be the world's experts in technology development and in designing and constructing technical solutions. But if we don't understand the socio-technical aspects of that, and socio-technical means not just the user, but all different stakeholders in society, and situate ourselves with the solutions that we're creating and building, then we can really make some wrong turns and go down some blind alleys and waste a lot of resources, and at the end of the day, actually not serve the ultimate goal or the ultimate receiver. I think DTU has changed and developed, and the world has changed and developed in many ways over the last 20 years, and if I were to focus on the way in which the education and the way in which DTU's general activities have developed over the years, it's unrecognisable I'd say. And I think that one of the main added ingredients to the education, to the way in which a student and a staff member both operate at DTU is, I think, in a much increased manner with the user in focus. We have a slogan, technology for people, for example, I think that says it all. We have a big focus on innovation and entrepreneurship, which is one of the four legs that we stand on at DTU as staff members. We support the students with technology to create solutions for people, and actually support them to bring solutions to the market as well. So I think there's many things in the way in which we operate, and I think that I haven't seen to every course that we offer at DTU, but I think that when I speak with students who, of course, most of the students I speak with are doing the design innovation programme, but take different specialisations, they come back and they can relate directly what they're doing to their field, which is much more user-driven, I'd say. Digital development, how is it special? So Andreas, now we're talking about innovation, I think, in general, but do you see that what we discuss now also applies to the field of digital transformation, digital innovation, or are things different when they are digital? I mean, digital is better, right? Well, no. I don't think necessarily that digital is better. Digital is, of course, very different.
footprints. I think the only solution for them is to dematerialize their products, to go to services, products as a service, maybe software as a service which you'll know more in the field you're working in. Materials as a service is a term which has been spoken about and all of these things can only be there with digital solutions as enablers. So the way which I see digital technologies and digital solutions is for sure as enablers. Even though I use them as products myself personally, but in a research perspective and a lot of my teaching where I bring elements of digitalization and digital solutions as you could say as elements of how to design and innovate for new value propositions, I see that for sure digital solutions as being enablers. May I just ask a follow-up question? Because there's one thing that concerns me a little bit when it comes to using the digital technology to enable resource sharing, which is that it could lead to the opposite of democratization of the technologies. Because if you share manufacturing capability for instance, then you're almost necessarily concentrating the manufacturing in some gatekeeping organizations and these could be for instance in China, to take a not-so-random example. And maybe you would like some of that stuff in Europe too. So I don't know, do you have some perspectives on this conflict between democratization and... I have some personal fears and apprehensions, yes. I think that free market forces often make that if a solution is a really good idea, there'll be other competing solutions out there. So I think that if we can halve the amount of capacity, or rather the amount of structural waste as it's called, in our capacity for manufacturing, then we're doing a really great job. And structural waste means basically we have facilities which are there and not being used to their full potential. So this building for example is for many percent of its time, I think 70 to 80 percent of its time, is not being used to teach students or to research. And you could say well that's just the way it is, or we can say that's not acceptable. And if we take the building and say well could we build it to have different purposes? Slightly more difficult for a building, but for manufacturing capacity for example, that has a particular raison d'etre, a particular reason for actually being put into operation. Let's take for example distilling or beer brewing. I'm not sure why I'm thinking about two alcoholic examples there, but just for example, because they exist actually, there are some brewing companies which actually rent out their brewing space to principal competitors. When you go to the supermarket you can buy the one beer or the other next to each other and they're actually competing. But they've actually made an agreement that well it's not really the brewing capacity which necessarily is the competing element. Why don't we collaborate on that? Because then we can save costs in these areas and then from that perspective you could say the competition then becomes the marketing, but also the ingredients of course, and the way in which we bring it forward. So yes there's always potential downsides and potential dangers of focusing manufacturing in one place or focusing capacity in one place and you could say de-skilling ourselves as well for sure. But I think there's other solutions where you could maybe make cooperatives where everybody goes into something with the same interest and the same access you could say. So perhaps related to that, so a model that is often used I think in digital is like that of horizontalization. So you would see sharing of resources like in an Amazon workspace or you know any of those cloud solutions that somebody invests in the infrastructure makes it available to everyone else and that's of course an enabling factor for further innovation I think. And I was thinking one of the other things you mentioned previously was about like Apple or others taking a cut of the cake. So it seems like sometimes innovation at least on digital side is that we have some isolated innovation specific products but it's building on top of a lot of existing services that you grow. So is that also where you see a challenge of sort of somebody taking a control point or what's your thought on that? Actually reminds me of an XKCD cartoon where you have this this digital product and it rests on a lot of a stack of technologies right and at the bottom there's this tiny little open source project that somebody maintains for free somewhere. So I think that maybe the concern is almost more brittleness that we can have some sophisticated products that ultimately rely on some not very well maintained packages or maybe packages that are well maintained but maintained like by one dude and if he or she stops maintaining a lot of people are in trouble. So there's one example that pops up sometimes which is the GUI tool called DearMGUI that's enormously used and maintained just by a single person. So I think that's maybe my main concern the brittleness that this might introduce. The burden of legacy. Can I just ask a question to this because I think it was nice to hear the devil's advocate view on what could go wrong and I think we for sure need to be careful. I think that many companies that I'm experiencing through research and other collaborations are trying to make this transformation exactly to start to decouple their value creation from physical products because one it's better environmentally but two it actually is easier to scale. What is your experiences in terms of companies when they do try to start this transformation to more digital solutions? Is it easy for the legacy company to build in new software solutions to develop their software to develop their organization in fact and the colleagues they have around them to be able to bring more digital solutions into their work? I would say as a young engineer and I was looking at stuff that was out there and I thought okay we can do this better so you jump into rewriting it and it takes not only a day or two but it takes significantly longer until you sort of have re-established the functionality that was there already. And for me having worked long nights and trying to recover stuff I kind of learned that there isn't the hard way and that if you have a legacy and you have a legacy burden it's a significant element that you simply have to take account of. So I think your point is super relevant that if you transform a business it's not just about creating a minimum viable product something that just pops up and delivers a nice new service that nobody has heard about. It's also about fulfilling the expectations from existing customers and I think there's been quite some it's a drastic changes in the in the landscape also I mean if you go back 50 years you might have heard about other companies maybe 40 years you have digital equipment corporation was one or Apollo or others that were delivering computers and they were you know the large players at some point they're gone. So transforming your business and understanding these disruptions that can allow you to do things in a different way that's super important and it's not so easy. And I think some of the challenges perhaps is also down to the culture. The way that we sometimes as individuals resist kind of change because we see that we're going to lose something and it's not clear what we're gaining in against that. So it needs to have sort of an active mindset of doing that and there are companies that are capable of doing it out there but it's it's something you have to be very much aware of. What are the biggest barriers for digital innovation and transformation? I did a case study together with my research group a few years ago on a British company which is making it's actually MAN truck and bus UK so it's a German owned holding company but it's the British branch of that and the former CEO in the case study which is published that's why I can talk about it he told that when they were transforming from a straight product business to a combined products and service business which involved lots of sensors in the trucks a dashboard not a traditional truck dashboard but a dashboard for the truck owners the haulage company to be able to see how well the drivers were performing and so forth. All that was relatively easy to build in because it was something new but the transition of the business from just selling trucks and buses to actually selling performance on top of.
He said it took him 10 years. And there are all sorts of barriers along the way, which you also just mentioned, the culture and the way in which we sell the solutions and so forth. From your experience in the industry and also observing the industry since you've been at DTU as well, what are the biggest barriers or biggest hurdles to watch out for? I think definitely culture is one of the biggest barriers and sort of having a mindset, being open for transforming your business and doing things in different ways. I think often an organization tends to reproduce itself and wants to have this built in, staying alive urgency. But I also think that understanding your customers and where the business is moving, it's super important. I mean, if you were selling horseshoes 250 years ago, you could probably sell quite many of those. They are sort of slightly less used today because the transportation industry has transformed completely. So understanding, I think also what your core business is and how you create value for your users is in my view also a very important element and perhaps even more so creating a shared understanding of that. So you talked about the 10-year transition period. Nielsen Norman Group have made some analysis of the sort of the readiness of companies to transform their business into more sort of a user-centric view. And I think they are talking about 30 to 40 years horizon from an organization where deep down the customer is seen as a hostile thing that we don't want to talk to until the customer actually becomes central for what you're doing. So having a shared understanding of how you create value I think is also an important element. And if that is lacking, then I think it's going to be very difficult to do a transformation process. What about luck? I think we should also talk about luck, to be honest. So an example came to mind, right? We are all of us carrying several ARM processors and why are we carrying them? I guess in a way it's your old company we to some extent have to thank, right? But why were the ARM processors available to them? And I think the reason was really that, what were they called? Acorn or something. They really wanted to make computers, but they couldn't because the market was kind of sewn up. So what do they do? Well, perhaps we could license our platform. And then they started trying to find licensees. And I think actually the first one was Apple and their Newton. Now nobody bought the Newton, which was a problem, but along came Nokia, and they pushed all of the ARM chips into the Nokias and then later into the iPhones. The rest is history. But if they had been able to make computers with their chips, maybe they hadn't come up with a licensing model. So yeah, I don't know if the listeners really gain much from this, but it seems to me that serendipity is a huge part of being successful in a digital transformation. Actually, I think there are quite many examples of this kind of luck. Or maybe sometimes it's just the fact that you run out of money, and then you have something, you're trying to put it in the market. I think Flickr or some of those early photo sharing services actually came about in that way. And it's back to what we maybe touched on previously, that if you cannot verticalize your market and get into that, then maybe you try to horizontalize and then make sure you can compete with everybody else by making your platform available. So I think probably what ARM have done is also to share kind of quite openly also their plans and what they want to do and have been open about that. And I think they've built a trust, so it's sort of an organizational element to it also. But yes, I agree that it's probably a bit of luck that make that happen, I think, at the beginning of the day. In entrepreneurship speak, they call it pivoting. Pivoting, nice. And I think pivoting is all about turning serendipity into something systematic and saying how can we make sure that we are able and flexible and agile enough to be able to pivot if we see something coming along. And I think that there's many, many examples, especially of startups, which it is serendipity and luck. And I think that the idea that with training and with coaching, we can see that there are actually a number of different routes that we can take from the verticals or the horizontal, as you mentioned, Pierre, and other ways of actually making sure that we make our own luck as well. We have all the options, not all the options, but some of the options covered, and we have a contingency plan and so forth. And that's one way of harnessing serendipity. The societal aspect of digital innovation and transformation. So, Tim, we talked a lot about value creation also, and value is, of course, not just something that is monetary value. Maybe there are other ways of ascribing value to things. So to wrap up, could you sort of perspectivize that a little bit for us? What is value creation also in this landscape of innovation? So we started actually talking about value creation. I was talking about the definition of value as being a subjective thing. If we talk about how to evaluate whether we've done the right thing or we've done something which is creating value, and if I were to use the framework which I'm very comfortable with using, which is sustainability, many companies talk about the triple bottom line. And this triple bottom line is both environmentally sustainable, economically sustainable and socially sustainable. And I think that if something is to be of value, nowadays we cannot get around all three of them being evaluated. And actually when we teach our students in innovation classes and within product development classes, we also teach them today, there's no way around it. So environmental value or environmental improvement means that a solution should be better than its predecessor, at least a little bit better, if not much, much better. And we can aim for much better. I think digital solutions can really enable us to do much, much better. If we talk about the economic sustainability, if you're going to be in a business, that's of course what they're going to go for is economic sustainability. And I think it's not just about the money, but it's about new ways of doing business, new ways of actually operating business. And I think that digital solutions can help us to do this pivoting, to do this changing in the way in which we actually earn a business, which is not just about pushing products out of a factory, but actually pushing value out and making sure that we have value creation. And then the third one is social sustainability. And I think there's very few areas which are like the digital sphere in terms of all of the potential social barriers or social hiccups or social minefields that are out there about we can do things with all the best intentions, but if we don't take care, we can be hacked, we can do the wrong thing, we can share the wrong data and so forth. So there's something really, really important there, which needs to be considered is all the ethical and social sustainability of our solutions. So again, I tend to use the sustainability trouble bottom line as being a way of evaluating any innovation today. And I think we, to an absolute high degree, can do it in digital solutions. So for our students, the digital innovation is kind of a possibility of going out and creating value in a new way, perhaps fulfilling a lifelong dream of creating value for humanity. So thank you very much, Tim and Andreas, for being here today. It's been a great pleasure and hearing your experiences and being able to tap into all of your wisdom. So thank you very much. Thanks for the opportunity. Pleasure to be here.
